[Term Entry] Python:SciPy scipy.stats: Descriptive Stats (#6055)
Codecademy/docs: content/scipy/concepts/scipy-stats/terms/descriptive-stats/descriptive-stats.md

---
Title: 'Descriptive Stats'

> Description: 'Refers to the process of summarizing and describing the essential features of a dataset.'

Reviewer: We can rewrite it like this to make it more direct and easy to understand - 

```suggestion
Description: 'Summarizes and describes the essential features of a dataset.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Data'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Math'
  - 'Python'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> In SciPy, **descriptive stats** refers to the process of summarizing and describing the essential features of a dataset. It enables users to understand the basic characteristics of the given data through various metrics such as central tendency, variability, and distribution shape.

Reviewer: This can be rewritten for better readability like this -

```suggestion
In SciPy, **descriptive statistics** refers to summarizing and analyzing a dataset's key characteristics. It helps summarize essential properties such as central tendency, variability, and distribution shape.
```

```

- `a`: The input data to describe.
- `axis` (Optional): The axis along which to compute the descriptive statistics (default is `0`). If set to `None`, the statistics are calculated for the whole array.
- `ddof` (Optional): Delta Degrees of Freedom for calculating variance (default is `1`).
- `bias` (Optional): If set to `False`, it corrects the skewness and kurtosis calculations for statistical bias.
- `nan_policy` (Optional): Defines the handling method to use when the input contains NaN. The options include:
  - `propagate` (Default): Returns NaN.
  - `raise`: Raises an error.
  - `omit`: Ignores NaN values and performs the calculations.

## Example

The following example demonstrates the usage of the `.describe()` function to calculate the descriptive statistics of a given array:

```py
import numpy as np
from scipy import stats

# Define an array
arr = np.array([12, 23, 34, 45, 56])

# Calculate the descriptive statistics of the array
res = stats.describe(arr)

# Print the result
print(res)
```

The above code produces the following output:

```shell
DescribeResult(nobs=5, minmax=(12, 56), mean=34.0, variance=302.5, skewness=0.0, kurtosis=-1.3)

> ```

Reviewer: Add a codebyte example here. See the [style guidelines](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md) for more info about codebyte example section.
